>> Spencer Schneidenbach: Let's
talk about Entity Framework Core.
And I'm all smiles because
Entity Framework Core is one of my
favorite parts of the .NET ecosystem.
So what is Entity Framework Core?
If you're familiar with ORMs in
JavaScript, Prisma is an example of one.
EF Core is that inside
of the .NET ecosystem.
So it allows you to work with
the database using .NET objects, and
provide a way to interact with databases
in an object-oriented way rather than
using directly SQL.
So developers and
SQL famously do not always get along.
So EF Core kind of exists to bridge
that gap, but it does so much more.
It really is awesome.
So why would you choose to use EF Core
over something like even raw SQL,
there's actually some other
ORM products out there,
but I don't think they're
as good as EF Core.
So first of all, you can do something
called code Ffrst development,
which allows you to define your
database schema using .NET classes, and
then generate
the corresponding data table.
So that's called code first.
You could also reverse-engineer.
There is actually a way to do that, we're
not gonna go through that in this course.
It's called database first, and
it is supported, and it is possible.
So you can do it both ways if you like.
So the thing that it does really well is
it maps those .NET objects to database
tables, making it easier to work with
those databases, as I mentioned,
in an object-oriented manner.
So Entity Framework Core does a lot
of the plumbing under the hood.
It'll write the SQL for you, and
that goes for querying your database,
as well as adding or
removing records from your database.
One of the cool things is that
you're able to write link and
have it talk to the database, as opposed
to just writing raw SQL, as I mentioned.
So we'll go through that
because that's really cool and
one of the most powerful parts
of using Entity Framework Core.
It also includes change tracking.
So it will automatically keep track of
the entities inside of your project and
whether or not they need to be updated or
whether or not they need to be inserted
into the database, or whether or
not properties need to change.
So it will take care of all of that for
you.
And then finally, another one of its
great features is that out of the box,
it supports database migrations.
So as your model changes, and
your model and requirements will change,
the EF Core will allow you to generate
those migration files and make it so
that you can keep your
database up to date.
So how does EF Core work in code?
So there's a couple of
really important constructs.
It's actually quite simple.
DBContext is the first one.
So dbContext is kind of the owner
of the database tables, or
it kind of represents an abstraction
of the database that you're targeting.
And in the dbContext,
you have a series of dbSets.
DbSets would be the individual
object inside of your database.
So considering our application,
for example,
our employee object is
the object that we use.
So you would have a dbSet for employee.
You would have a dbSet for
an employee benefit.
If you had a customer record, you'd have
a dbSet for customers, so on and so forth.
Here's what a sample of
that code looks like.
So a dbContext class that you
define inherits from dbContext,
and then you define properties that set
the dbSet for each of those employees.
This is what it would look like.
If you've instantiated
a copy of your dbSet and
you're querying your employees table,
you can do link, just normal links.
So you can say where and
provided a predicate to say that for
the employees who department is sales.
And I wanna bring those into list.
And then roughly, it will return something
that will roughly under the hood,
go to the database and execute a query
that looks very similar to this,
where it does a select star from
employees, where department equals sales.
So it does a lot of translation of SQL for
you using LINQ, which is really cool.
The way that you install EF Core is
through the NuGet Package Manager.
And you can do that by installing
Microsoft.EntityFrameworkCore.
And that's the package
that includes pretty much
all the core stuff that you need,
which is the dbContext, dbSet.
But individual database providers
are provided in separate NuGet packages.
So for instance, if you're
targeting SQL Server or Postgres,
those are separate packages, and you would
install those separately as you would need
each of those in different databases.
So we're gonna go with the SQLite database
provider because it's super easy to get
started with, and it's super easy to use.